FoodTracker Prototype Development:

The development of FoodTracker prototype is done on Hyperledger Fabric on IBM’s Hyperledger Fabric Composer. 

Scope of Prototype Development

The following are the scope of development of the prototype:
1.	Only one product is considered for the development of prototype. In this case, we used bananas for the prototype.
2.	A certain part of the food chain is considered. In this case, the food chain processes between farmer and processor via a shipper.
3.	The following attributes are considered as a part of transaction between a farmer and a processor:
  a.	Food Asset Ownership
  b.	Entity Reputation
  c.	Temperature Monitoring during Shipping
  d.	Credit Transfer

The credit transfer between the entities demonstrated in the prototype can be considered as a direct currency transfer. 
However, at this stage it is not defined what the currency would be and how this currency would be transferred.

Assumptions

The following assumptions were considered:
1.	Shipments carry only one type of product. For the convenience of prototype development, the product considered are bananas.
2.	Temperatures can be tracked throughout the shipment automatically.
3.	Every entity in the blockchain has authority to view complete detail of every transaction.

Business Rules Considered

The following business rules were considered to build the prototype:
1.	The contract created between the entities define the terms of sales of entities in the chain.
2.	Food asset ownership would be tracked throughout the chain.
3.	A minimum temperature and maximum temperature would be defined in the contract between the entities. 
Different penalty rates for violating minimum and maximum temperature would be defined in the contract.
4.	Every entity would be given a point for a good shipment of product which includes temperatures maintained throughout 
the shipment and on-time delivery of the products.
5.	A point would be deducted from every entity’s reputation in case of violation of temperature during shipment 
or in case of late delivery.
6.	The contract defines the unit price of the product. Quantity of the product is set during the initiation of the shipment.
7.	Credits would be transferred to each entity in the chain as per the contract defined between the entities.
 
